Add concepts and terminology to getting started guide (#26529)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/getting-started/concepts-terminology.markdown

---
title: "Concepts and terminology"
description: "User explanation of Home Assistant basics"
---
Now you're in Home Assistant, let's go over important parts of Home Assistant and what they do.

> ### Dashboards

Reviewer: One level to much

```suggestion
## Dashboards

```

PS: It is a good practice to add a new line after a header (common Markdown styling).

> Customizable pages to display information connected to and available in Home Assistant. Dashboards are the first thing you see after the [onboarding process](/getting-started/onboarding). More details can be found [here](/dashboards).

Reviewer 2: A user could be confused if the whole thing is the dashboard, or just certain menu points. How about:

```suggestion
Customizable pages to display information connected to and available in Home Assistant. By default there are two Dashboards, Overview and Energy. The Overview dashboard is the first thing you see after the [onboarding process](/getting-started/onboarding). More details can be found [here](/dashboards).
```

![Dashboard](/images/getting-started/lovelace.png)
### Integrations

> Software that allows Home Assistant to connect to other software and platforms. For example, Philips Hue integration allow Home Assistant to talk to the Hue Bridge and read data such as the state of your lights through to controlling the lights themselves.

Reviewer 3: Just a few suggestions for clerical changes.

```suggestion
Software that allows Home Assistant to connect to other software and platforms. For example, the Philips Hue integration allows Home Assistant to talk to the Hue Bridge and read data such as the state of your lights through to controlling the lights themselves.
```

![Integrations](/images/getting-started/integrations.png)

A full list of compatible integrations can be found [here](/integrations).

Once an integration has been added, the hardware and/or data are represented in Home Assistant as [devices and entities](#devices--entities).

> ### Devices & Entities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Devices & Entities

```

> Devices are logical grouping for one or more entities. A device may represent a physical device and the device may have one or more sensors which appear as entities associated to the device. For example, a motion sensor is represented as a device and the motion may provide motion detection, temperature and light levels as entities. Entities have states such as `on` when motion is detected and `off` where is no motion.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Devices are a logical grouping for one or more entities. A device may represent a physical device and the device may have one or more sensors which appear as entities associated to the device. For example, a motion sensor is represented as a device and may provide motion detection, temperature, and light levels as entities. Entities have states such as `on` when motion is detected and `off` when there is no motion.
```

Reviewer: I would also suggest no to use code-fence `on` and `off` in this case. And just keep it with normal text for this part.

> Devices are logical grouping for one or more entities. A device may represent a physical device and the device may have one or more sensors which appear as entities associated to the device. For example, a motion sensor is represented as a device and the motion may provide motion detection, temperature and light levels as entities. Entities have states such as `on` when motion is detected and `off` where is no motion.

Reviewer 2: I think we should also emphasize that each entity has one state , and that the state is the main thing we automate on?

Reviewer: That is not true, attributes are also states.

Devices and entities can be used in dashboards to [automations](#automations).

![Home Assistant Device](/images/getting-started/home-assistant-device.png)

> ### Automations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Automations

```

> A set of repeatable actions that can be set up to run automatically. More details can be found [here](/automation).

Reviewer 2: This is a bit confusing, as "Actions" are one of the three parts what an Automation consists of. Conditions and Actions are the other two. It is a bit a question how deep we go here, but I think we should extend it a bit as this is one of the most important features of Home Assistant in the end.

I think the link should point to `/getting-started/automation`

Reviewer: It could also help to add a bit of context to it... like short explaining what an action is (For example, turning a light on).

![Automations](/images/getting-started/automation-editor.png)

> ### Scripts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Scripts

```

> Similar to automations, repeatable actions that can be run. The difference between scripts and automations is scripts do not have triggers like automations so they cannot automatically run unless it's used in an automation. Scripts are particularly useful if you perform the same actions in different automations or triggering them from a dashboard. More details can be found [here](/integrations/script/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Similar to automations, repeatable actions that can be run. The difference between scripts and automations is that scripts do not have triggers like automations. This means that scripts cannot automatically run unless they are used in an automation. Scripts are particularly useful if you perform the same actions in different automations or triggering them from a dashboard. More details can be found [here](/integrations/script/).
```

Reviewer: Additionally: `triggering them from` -> `trigger them from`

> ### Scenes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Scenes

```

> Scenes are saved states of entities which can be recalled using scripts or automations. For example, a light can be set to a particular brightness, color, etc. More details can be found [here](/integrations/scene/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scenes are saved states of entities that can be recalled using scripts or automations. For example, a light can be set to a particular brightness, color, etc. More details can be found [here](/integrations/scene/).
```

Reviewer: A good bit of context to add here might be: How are those different from automations or scripts?

Author: @frenck I have added the sentence:
_Scenes cannot have conditions are actions like scripts and automations._

is that what you mean?

Reviewer: Right, yes/no.

So, that makes it sound like scenes are less useful (a more negatively loaded approach, as they can do less than automation and scripts?).

I think the difference between scenes and automation in general, is very unclear in the community. Scenes are often less popular (which is IMHO, not always justified).

Looking at the gist/general question one could have: "Why would I turn on a light using a scene? An automation can do that too?"; which is, of course absolutely true.

(Sorry, thinking out loud here, as I also struggle with a short way to explain it clearly towards an user).

> Scenes are saved states of certain entities that can be recalled using scripts or automation.

Maybe that part is just too technical in this case? "states that can be recalled"?

Or an example could maybe help as well. Like: Set the cosy mood in your living room, by setting all your lights in the mood you are in (brightness, color), setting the thermostat to a nice warm temperature to match the warm lights. By creating a scene for those devices, you now have a cosy scene that you can activate with a single button push that will restore all your device into that cosy state any time in the future... or something better rolling

Author: Gotcha! I must admit I have struggled with the same questions re: scene v.s. automation but I get what you're saying. Let me see what I can conjure up.

> ### Add-ons

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add-ons

```

> Depending on your [installation type](/installation), you may have the ability to install add-ons. Add-ons are usually apps that can be run with Home Assistant but provide a quick and easy way to install, configure and run within Home Assistant. Add-ons provide additional functionality where as integrations connects Home Assistant to other apps.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Depending on your [installation type](/installation), you may have the ability to install add-ons. Add-ons are usually apps that can be run with Home Assistant but provide a quick and easy way to install, configure, and run within Home Assistant. Add-ons provide additional functionality where as integrations connect Home Assistant to other apps.
```

Maybe it would be worth mentioning that add-ons are third-party software packages, or maybe add a link to the [Glossary](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/glossary/)? I'm not trying to suggest the text should be copied from the glossary. I personally find it helpful to have different explanations for a concept.

Reviewer: Interesting, I wonder if we could make a helper or plugin that links to the glossary automatically (or easily) in places. (Not for this PR, just a thought).

Reviewer: Voila proposal for that: <https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/pull/26542>

---
title: "Concepts and terminology"
description: "User explanation of Home Assistant basics"
---
Now you're in Home Assistant, let's go over important parts of Home Assistant and what they do.

## Dashboards

Customizable pages to display information connected to and available in Home Assistant. By default there are two Dashboards, Overview and Energy. The Overview dashboard is the first thing you see after the [onboarding process](/getting-started/onboarding). More details can be found [here](/dashboards).

![Dashboard](/images/getting-started/lovelace.png)
## Integrations

Software that allows Home Assistant to connect to other software and platforms. For example, the Philips Hue integration allows Home Assistant to talk to the Hue Bridge and read data such as the state of your lights through to controlling the lights themselves.

![Integrations](/images/getting-started/integrations.png)

A full list of compatible integrations can be found [here](/integrations).

Once an integration has been added, the hardware and/or data are represented in Home Assistant as [devices and entities](#devices--entities).

## Devices & Entities

> Devices are a logical grouping for one or more entities. A device may represent a physical device and the device may have one or more sensors which appear as entities associated to the device. For example, a motion sensor is represented as a device and the motion may provide motion detection, temperature and light levels as entities. Entities have states such as on when motion is detected and off when there is no motion.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Devices are a logical grouping for one or more entities. A device may represent a physical device and the device may have one or more sensors which appear as entities associated to the device. For example, a motion sensor is represented as a device and the motion may provide motion detection, temperature, and light levels as entities. Entities have states such as _on_ when motion is detected and _off_ when there is no motion.
```
Do you think we could maybe add a video illustrating this? Something like
[devices-entities-l.webm](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/38767475/224471344-14cb0fdc-dc43-4eef-8f04-d1d9441978bb.webm)
I'm not an illustrator. Maybe someone has some suggestions how I could make this prettier.

Author: @c0ffeeca7 I will keep the on and off as plain text as per @frenck previous comment.

As for the video, that would be cool but as you have said I too am not an illustrator and something for the future.

> Devices and entities can be used in dashboards to [automations](#automations).

Reviewer 3: Not sure I understand this. Do you mean something like _Devices and entities are used in many areas in Home Assistant, e.g. in dashboards and automations_ ?

Author: @c0ffeeca7 good point. I will amend this and expand it a bit.

Author: @c0ffeeca7 how about this:
```
Devices and entities are used throughout Home Assistant. To name a few examples:
* Dashboards can show a state of an entity like if a light bulb is on or off as well as buttons that interact with devices like turning a light bulb on or off.
* An automation can be triggered from a state change on an entity e.g. a light turning on and control another device or entity.
* A pre defined setting for light device saved as a scene.

![Home Assistant Device](/images/getting-started/home-assistant-device.png)

## Automations

A set of repeatable actions that can be set up to run automatically. Automations are made of three key components:

> 1. Triggers - event(s) that start an automation like when the sun sets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Triggers - event(s) that start an automation. For example, when the sun sets.
```
I know I'm being a pain in the ass. But using parallelism can improve readability.

Author: @c0ffeeca7 you're not a PITA and I appreciate the feedback you're doing 👍

Author: @c0ffeeca7 I used *like* instead of for example because I was trying to avoid repetition on point 2 where I use *For example* however, if you think it's better this way then I am happy to amend.

2. Conditions - optional tests that must be met before continuing to running actions. For example, if someone is home.
3. Actions - interact with devices such as turn on a light.

More details can be found [here](/docs/automation/basics/) or try creating an [automation](/getting-started/automation).

![Automations](/images/getting-started/automation-editor.png)

## Scripts

Similar to automations, repeatable actions that can be run. The difference between scripts and automations is that scripts do not have triggers like automations. This means that scripts cannot automatically run unless they are used in an automation. Scripts are particularly useful if you perform the same actions in different automations or trigger them from a dashboard. More details can be found [here](/integrations/script/).

## Scenes

> Scenes are saved states of certain entities that can be recalled using scripts or automations. For example, a light can be set to a particular brightness, color, etc. Scenes cannot have conditions are actions like scripts and automations. More details can be found [here](/integrations/scene/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Scenes are saved states of certain entities that can be recalled using scripts or automations. For example, a light can be set to a particular brightness, color, etc. Scenes cannot have conditions or actions like scripts and automations. More details can be found [here](/integrations/scene/).
```

## Add-ons

> Depending on your [installation type](/installation), you may have the ability to install third party add-ons. Add-ons are usually apps that can be run with Home Assistant but provide a quick and easy way to install, configure, and run within Home Assistant. Add-ons provide additional functionality where as integrations connect Home Assistant to other apps.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Depending on your [installation type](/installation), you may have the ability to install third party add-ons. Add-ons are usually apps that can be run with Home Assistant but provide a quick and easy way to install, configure, and run within Home Assistant. Add-ons provide additional functionality whereas integrations connect Home Assistant to other apps.
```

![Integrations](/images/getting-started/integrations.png)

A full list of compatible integrations can be found [here](/integrations).

Once an integration has been added, the hardware and/or data are represented in Home Assistant as [devices and entities](#devices--entities).

## Devices & Entities

Devices are a logical grouping for one or more entities. A device may represent a physical device and the device may have one or more sensors which appear as entities associated to the device. For example, a motion sensor is represented as a device and the motion may provide motion detection, temperature and light levels as entities. Entities have states such as on when motion is detected and off when there is no motion.

Devices and entities are used throughout Home Assistant. To name a few examples:
* [Dashboards](#dashboards) can show a state of an entity like if a light bulb is on or off as well as buttons that interact with devices like turning a light bulb on or off.
* An [automation](automations) can be triggered from a state change on an entity e.g. a light turning on and control another device or entity.

> * A pre defined setting for light device saved as a [scene](scenes).

Reviewer 3: just one minor typo:
```suggestion
* A predefined setting for light device saved as a [scene](scenes).
```
